[Alerting][Docs] Support enablement documentation. (#101457)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/alerting/troubleshooting/event-log-index.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[event-log-index]]

> === Event Log Index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Event log index
```

Reviewer: Or should the title be "Query the event log"

> This is useful for determining things like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the event log index to determine:
```

> * Whether a rule successfully ran but its associated actions did not

Reviewer: Add a line space above the bulleted list so it formats correctly.

* Whether a rule was ever activated

> * Possibly additional information about rule execution errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Additional information about rule execution errors
```

Reviewer: Suggest moving this to the last position in the list

    }
  ], 
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "filter": [
        {
          "term": {
            "event.provider": {
              "value": "alerting"
            }
          }
        },
        // optionally filter by specific action event
        { 
          "term": {
            "event.action": "active-instance"
              | "execute-action"
              | "new-instance"
              | "recovered-instance"
              | "execute" 
          }
        },
        // filter by specific rule id
        {
          "nested": {
            "path": "kibana.saved_objects",
            "query": {
              "bool": {
                "filter": [
                  {
                    "term": {
                      "kibana.saved_objects.id": {
                        "value": "b541b690-bfc4-11eb-bf08-05a30cefd1fc"
                      }
                    }
                  },
                  {
                    "term": {
                      "kibana.saved_objects.type": "alert"
                    }
                  }

                ]
              }
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

> Event log query to look at all events related to executing rule or action. These events include duration which may be useful to examine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event log query to look at all events related to executing a rule or action. These events include duration.
```

[source, txt]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /.kibana-event-log*/_search
{
  "sort": [
    {
      "@timestamp": {
        "order": "desc"
      }
    }
  ], 
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "filter": [
        {
          "term": {
            "event.action": {
              "value": "execute"
            }
          }
        },
        // optionally filter by specific rule or action id
        {
          "nested": {
            "path": "kibana.saved_objects",
            "query": {
              "bool": {
                "filter": [
                  {
                    "term": {
                      "kibana.saved_objects.id": {
                        "value": "b541b690-bfc4-11eb-bf08-05a30cefd1fc"
                      }
                    }
                  }
                ]
              }
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Event log query to look at the errors. 

> You should see an `error.message` property in that event, with a message from the action executor that may provide more detail on why the action encountered an error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see an `error.message` property in that event, with a message from the action executor that might provide more detail on why the action encountered an error:
```

[source, txt]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "event": {
    "provider": "actions", 
    "action": "execute", 
    "start": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.392Z", "end": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.393Z", "duration": 1000000
  },
  "kibana": {
    "namespace": "default",
    "saved_objects": [
      { "type": "action", "id": "7a6fd3c6-72b9-44a0-8767-0432b3c70910" }
    ],
  },
  "message": "action executed: .server-log:7a6fd3c6-72b9-44a0-8767-0432b3c70910: server-log",
  "@timestamp": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.393Z",
}
--------------------------------------------------

> And for the rules:

Reviewer: need more information here

And see the errors for the rules you might provide the next search query:
[source, txt]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "event": {
    "provider": "alerting", 

>     "start": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.392Z", "end": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.393Z", "duration": 1000000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "start": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.392Z",
    "end": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.393Z",
    "duration": 1000000
```

  },
  "kibana": {
    "namespace": "default",
    "saved_objects": [

>       { "rel" : "primary", "type" : "alert", 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      {
        "rel" : "primary",
        "type" : "alert", 
```

      	"id" : "30d856c0-b14b-11eb-9a7c-9df284da9f99"
      }
    ],
  },
  "message": "alert executed: .index-threshold:30d856c0-b14b-11eb-9a7c-9df284da9f99: 'test'",

> "error" : {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "error" : {
```

          },
}
--------------------------------------------------

> You can also query the event log for failures which should return more specific details about alerts which failed by targeting the event.outcome. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also query the event log for failures, which should return more specific details about alerts which failed by targeting the event.outcome. 
```

> Example:

Reviewer: This line is not needed

> You can also query the event log for failures, which should return more specific details about alerts which failed by targeting the event.outcome:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also query the event log for failures, which should return more specific details about rules which failed by targeting the event.outcome:
```

[source, txt]
--------------------------------------------------
GET .kibana-event-log-*/_search
{
  "query": {
	"bool": {
  		"must": [
    		{ "match": { "event.outcome": "failure" }}
  	]
	}
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Here’s an example of what failed credentials from Google SMTP might look like from the response:
[source, txt]
--------------------------------------------------

> ...

Reviewer 2: remove ellipses?

      	"error" : {
        	"message" : """error sending email: Invalid login: 535-5.7.8 Username and Password not accepted. Learn more at
535 5.7.8  https://support.google.com/mail/?p=BadCredentials e207sm3359731pfh.171 - gsmtp"""
      	},

> ...

Reviewer 2: remove ellipses?

{
  "sort": [
    {
      "@timestamp": {
        "order": "desc"
      }
    }
  ], 
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "filter": [
        {
          "term": {
            "event.action": {
              "value": "execute"
            }
          }
        },
        // optionally filter by specific rule or action id
        {
          "nested": {
            "path": "kibana.saved_objects",
            "query": {
              "bool": {
                "filter": [
                  {
                    "term": {
                      "kibana.saved_objects.id": {
                        "value": "b541b690-bfc4-11eb-bf08-05a30cefd1fc"
                      }
                    }
                  }
                ]
              }
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Event log query to look at the errors. 
You should see an `error.message` property in that event, with a message from the action executor that might provide more detail on why the action encountered an error:
[source, txt]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "event": {
    "provider": "actions", 
    "action": "execute", 

>     "start": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.392Z", "end": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.393Z", "duration": 1000000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "start": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.392Z",
    "end": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.393Z",
    "duration": 1000000
```

  },
  "kibana": {
    "namespace": "default",
    "saved_objects": [

>       { "type": "action", "id": "7a6fd3c6-72b9-44a0-8767-0432b3c70910" }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      { 
        "type": "action",
        "id": "7a6fd3c6-72b9-44a0-8767-0432b3c70910"
      }
```

    ],
  },
  "message": "action executed: .server-log:7a6fd3c6-72b9-44a0-8767-0432b3c70910: server-log",
  "@timestamp": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.393Z",
}
--------------------------------------------------

And see the errors for the rules you might provide the next search query:
[source, txt]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "event": {
    "provider": "alerting", 
    "start": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.392Z",
    "end": "2020-03-31T04:27:30.393Z",
    "duration": 1000000
  },
  "kibana": {
    "namespace": "default",
    "saved_objects": [
      {
        "rel" : "primary",
        "type" : "alert", 

>       	"id" : "30d856c0-b14b-11eb-9a7c-9df284da9f99"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      	  "id" : "30d856c0-b14b-11eb-9a7c-9df284da9f99"
```

      }
    ],
  },
  "message": "alert executed: .index-threshold:30d856c0-b14b-11eb-9a7c-9df284da9f99: 'test'",

>     "error" : {

Reviewer 2: json formatting should be fixed

            "message" : "Saved object [action/ef0e2530-b14a-11eb-9a7c-9df284da9f99] not found"
          },
}
--------------------------------------------------

You can also query the event log for failures, which should return more specific details about rules which failed by targeting the event.outcome:

[source, txt]
--------------------------------------------------
GET .kibana-event-log-*/_search
{

>   "query": {

Reviewer 2: json formatting should be fixed
